Good evening I'm Pauline Frederick of
NPR moderator of the second of the
historic debates of the 1976 campaign
between Gerald R. Ford of Michigan
Republican candidate for president and
Jimmy Carter of Georgia Democratic
candidate for president. Thank You
President Ford and Thank You governor
Carter for being with us tonight.
this debate takes place before an
audience in the Palace of Fine Arts
Theater in San Francisco. An estimated
100 million Americans are watching on
television as well.
San Francisco was the site of the
signing of the United Nations Charter
thirty-one years ago thus it is an
appropriate place to hold this debate
the subject of which is foreign and
defense issues. The questioners tonight
are Max Frankel associate editor of the
New York Times Henry L. Trewhitt diplomatic
correspondent of the Baltimore Sun and
Richard Valeriani diplomatic
correspondent of NBC News. The ground
rules tonight are basically the same as
they were for the first debate two weeks
ago. The questions will be alternated
between candidates. By the toss of a coin
governor Carter will take the first
question. Each question sequence will be
as follows the question will be asked
and the candidate will have up to three
minutes to answer. His opponent will have
up to two minutes to respond and prior
to the response the questioner may ask a
follow-up question to clarify the
candidates answer when necessary
with up to two minutes to reply. Each
candidate will have three minutes for a
closing statement at the end. President
Ford and governor Carter do not have
notes or prepared remarks with them this
evening but they may take notes during
the debate and refer to them. Mr.
Frankel you have the first question
for governor Carter.
Governor since the Democrats last ran
our foreign policy including many of the
men who are advising you country has
been relieved of the Vietnam agony in
the military draft we've started arms
control negotiations with the Russians
we've opened relations with China we've
arranged the disengagement in the Middle
East we've regained influence with the
Arabs without deserting Israel now maybe
we've even begun a process of peaceful
change in Africa.
Now you've objected in this campaign to
the style with which much of this was
done and you've mentioned some other
things that that you think ought to have
been done but do you really have a
quarrel with this Republican record?
Would you not have done any of those
things? Well I think this Republican
administration has been almost all style
and spectacular and not substance we've
got a chance tonight to talk about first
of all leadership the character of our
country and a vision of the future and
every one of these instances the Ford
administration has failed and I hope
tonight that I and Mr. Ford will have a
chance to discuss a reason for those
failures. Our country is not strong
anymore we're not respected anymore we
can only be strong overseas if we're
strong at home and when I become
president we're not only be strong in
those areas but also in defense. A
defense capability's second to none.
We've lost in our foreign policy the
character of American people. We've
ignored or excluded the American people
into Congress from participation in the
shaping of a foreign policy it's been
one of secrecy and exclusion. In addition
to that we've had a chance to become now
contrary to our long-standing beliefs
and principles the arms merchants of the
whole world we've tried to buy success
from our enemies and at the same time
we've excluded from the process the
normal friendship of our allies. In
addition to that we've become fearful to
compete with the Soviet Union on equal
basis.
We talked about detente. The Soviet Union
knows what they want in detente and
they've been getting it. We have not
known what we've wanted and we've been
out traded in almost every instance. The
other point I want to make is about our
defense. We've got to be a nation blessed
with a defense capability that's
efficient tough